# Nutrient-Addition-and-Stress-Tolerance-Experiment-
#NASTE
#J. Glazner Abstract of Experiment
#Local environmental conditions contribute to either the resilience or susceptibility of corals to the global stress of climate change. One such factor is the local nutrient input from terrestrial sources. Prior studies have indicated that corals around islands with abundant seabird populations may be more resilient to bleaching events, and it has been hypothesized that this is due to nutrient enrichment from seabird guano. In contrast, corals near human-populated islands can have high levels of anthropogenic nutrients entering the coastal environment via wastewater effluent, which can negatively affect coral health and survivorship. In an experiment conducted at the Hawaiʻi Institute of Marine Biology, we investigated corals' response to natural vs anthropogenic nutrient sources to disentangle their contrasting effects. Corals were exposed to one of four nutrient treatments: seabird guano, wastewater effluent, inorganic nutrients, or an ambient control. Half of the corals were subjected to a simulated bleaching event after nutrient exposure. Coral growth rates, photosynthetic output, symbiont density, and bleaching response measurements were taken to compare how each nutrient treatment affects the coral's response to increased water temperatures. Local managers can use these findings to implement targeted nutrient management strategies and monitoring efforts, bolstering reef resilience in the face of climate change.